All right, so in this video, let's start by exploring some different ways
to create local classes.
So, we need a new class in our fundamentals project.
We're going to call this one unoriginally LocalClassExample2.
Go ahead and do that.
Paste the code in.
All right, so this code that I've pasted in demonstrates that you can create local
classes in static methods as well.
So, the code consists of, as you can see on screen there,
our abstract class called AbstractClass. It's got a single abstract method doSomething.
Moving on down, we've got an interface called executable with a single method.
then we've got the class we created – LocalClassExample2, our public class
and you can see there, that's got an attribute called "name" which I have typed string,
and then just a static method main there,
and that's doing all the demonstrating. You can see there firstly,
showing in the class A, definition on line 23,
that goes showing that the local class can extend any class including an abstract one.
And then the next on line 30
showing that a local class can implement interfaces.
The third on line 38, declaring a local abstract class.
Moving on down on line 43, we're creating a local class
extending another local class,
and then we're executing code
on instances of these local classes.
So, if we run the code now,
you can see the output as shown.
All right, so let's actually remove the local variable
in the LocalClassExample2 class. Up here, we're going to remove that.
We've introduced three compiler errors, one for every reference to name.
Now, can we just replace each instance
with LocalClassExample2.this.name.
So, as an example, can we change that for class A
to LocalClassExample2.this.name.
We can see the answer there; we've got a compiler error. The answer is no.
Hopefully, you remember that the main method is static. You can see that on line 19
and you cannot refer to this in a static reference.
Any instance members defined in your class are off limits
to a local class declared in static methods.
Let's undo those changes so that we've got code that compiles again.
We'll just run it to make sure it's working.
All right, again, this code is demonstrating
that a local class can extend a class including another local class
previously declared in the same code block,
demonstrating the local class can implement an interface.
The local class can be abstract
and that if you define local classes in static method blocks,
you cannot access instance members of the class.
All right, so moving on now, let's take a look at anonymous classes.
So, we're going to create a new class for this.
We're going to call it AnonymousInnerExample.
Let's paste the code in.
So kind of paste it in, you can see we've created an abstract class called AnAbstractClass,
which consists of a variable I, and an abstract method.
We've also created an interface on line 14 called Doable
with one method,
and then our public AnonymousInnerExample class
has got an attribute called name and the methods test anonymous,
and then our static method main for running the code.
So, we're showing an example here specifically of creating
an anonymous class which extends the abstract class AnAbstractClass.
And you can see that in the test anonymous method there,
we're declaring a variable of type AnAbstractClass and immediately defining the class body,
and we're executing the doSomething method on line 33,
and then we're creating the new AnonymousInnerExample
class and calling the test anonymous method on line 38.
So, if we run this now,
we can see the output at the bottom of the screen.
So, let's actually have a look at the anonymous class creation more closely
So looking at that code on screen,
at first glance, it almost looks like we're instantiating an abstract class,
which we know we cannot do.
And I'm talking about the code new AnAbstractClass,
but this is immediately followed
by a set of curly braces containing code statements.
This is actually the anonymous class body,
so let's pause here and I want to talk about the structure and rules of use for an anonymous class.
An anonymous class is very different from the other nested classes
because it's not written like a class declaration at all.
Rather, it's written as an expression.
An anonymous class is dependent on an interface to implement,
or a class to extend,
either of which must contain the accessible method or method(s)
which the anonymous class will implement and execute.
The structure of anonymous class is written as one of the two samples
you can see on screen.
With the first one new ParentClassType parentheses
with optional constructor arguments,
then we've got our class body in left to right curly braces ending with a semicolon.
The second type is new InterfaceType parentheses
and then we've got our class body in curly braces again
and also ending in a semi-colon.
Some notes about this – The expression can be assigned
to a local variable, an instance variable,
or a static class variable.
The expression can be passed as a parameter to another method
with a parameter of the correct type.
You can declare the following in anonymous classes.
Firstly, fields (You cannot declare static fields unless they are constants,
same as with a local class).
You can also declare extra methods in anonymous classes
(even if they do not implement or override any methods of the supertype).
You can declare instance initializers in anonymous classes,
and you can also declare local classes in anonymous classes.
Now, what you can't declare in anonymous classes are firstly constructors.
You can't declare static fields in anonymous classes (with the exception of constants).
You can't declare static initializers, static methods,
or member interfaces in anonymous classes either.
All right, so now that we've been armed with this knowledge,
let's see what we can do with it in the next video.